---
title: Upper West Side Townhouse Market
main_image: /assets/img/blog/download-20151006160132.jpg
author:
  - /agents/garfield/jed-garfield
authors:
  - Jed Garfield
categories:
  - New York Times
  - Townhouses
  - Upper East Side
---
<p>"In Search of Townhouse Deals" </p><p>An excerpt from the New York Times.
</p><p>Ms. Feder and Dr. Leonard, an obstetrician and gynecologist, have already begun a new project, recently buying a townhouse in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn. It is half the size of their Upper West Side home and has a large garden with a pergola. “The neighborhood felt like the Upper West Side 10 or 15 years ago, with so many independent shops,” she said. “We just fell in love.”
</p><p>Townhouses are a niche in the luxury market, representing a small fraction of the city’s housing stock. This is especially true on the Upper West Side, where there are roughly 1,600 townhouses, compared with nearly double that number on the Upper East Side. But as more families stay in the city, and condominium prices surge ever higher, renewed attention is being lavished on this rare housing stock.<br></p><p>While historically townhouses in the West 70s were the most sought after, as prices have continued to escalate, more developers and owners are crossing the 79th Street boundary. And this migration north can be seen most clearly in the changes afoot on West 83rd Street.<br></p><p>In addition to Ms. Felder’s home at No. 60, a couple in California is asking just shy of $7 million for a rowhouse at No. 6 that they never moved into, while at No. 12, a family whose children attend school on the East Side is hoping to sell their 18-foot-wide renovated house for $11.5 million. Earlier this year, No. 10 sold for $9.75 million, while last year, No. 51 sold for $6.8 million, No. 61 for $4.495 million and No. 69 for $8.3 million. The owners of No. 14 and No. 16, meanwhile, are combining their two townhouses to create a huge single-family mansion.<br></p><p>“You don’t typically see that much activity on a single block,” said Rick Pretsfelder, a partner at Leslie J. Garfield Real Estate, who represents both Ms. Felder and the sellers of 6 West 83rd Street.<br></p><p>Two bellwether deals in the West 80s helped cement this burgeoning demand. First, in 2011, a townhouse at 247 Central Park West near 85th Street sold for $22.375 million; then last year, 249 Central Park West next door sold for $17.5 million.<br></p><p>“It used to be unusual to see eight-figure sales on the Upper West Side, but now people are saying to themselves, ‘Wow, I can buy this building for $6 million and sell for $16 million, that is a lot of money to be made,’ ” Mr. Pretsfelder said. “There is a whole bunch of spec buying and conversions to single-family homes, and now about half the inventory is asking eight figures.”<br></p><p>To read the full story visit <a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/09/realestate/upper-west-side-townhouse-market.html?hpw&rref=realestate&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&module=well-region&region=bottom-well&WT.nav=bottom-well&_r=0">The New York Times</a><br></p>