---
title: The Landmarks Preservation Commission
main_image: ""
author:
  - /agents/garfield/francis-o-shea
authors:
  - "Francis O'Shea"
categories:
  - Landmarks Preservation Commision
  - Renovations
---
<p>The prospect of renovating a townhouse is daunting enough. And if the property happens to lie in one of Manhattan's many historic districts, the contractor, architect, and department of buildings aren't the only ones you will have to wrestle with before you can settle into your newly renovated pad.</p><p>The Landmarks Preservation Commission, also known as the LPC, was formed to help preserve the particular neighborhood character of many of Manhattans finest townhouse blocks. The LPC serves a crucial function  by preventing out of place development in areas whose value lies in part in the uniform and historic townhouse facades that attract so many buyers.<br></p><p>Any project in a historic district that includes a change in the facade of the building or an expansion of its outer envelope has to be approved by the panel of architects, lawyers that make up the LPC, to insure that the proposed changes will not mar the essential character of the houses that surround it.<br></p><p>Many owners and potential purchasers are under the impression that interaction with the LPC is the function of an expeditor. In fact, an expeditor's real role lies in procuring permits from the building department and zoning board, neither of which are connected to the activities of judgments of the LPC. Many also believe that a good architect will be able to guide a project through the LPC.<br></p><p>And indeed an architect experienced in the vagueries of building in an historic district will be invaluable to a projects success.<br></p><p>But ultimately the LPC is a political organization, and the specific parameters of a given expansion often have less to do with its ultimate realization than do the way that project is perceived by the LPC and the citizens who are invited by law to participate.<br></p><p>This is where the Landmarks consultant steps in. Often former members of the LPC themselves, these consultants, usually for an hourly fee, work with the the principal and her various team members (builder, architect, zoning expeditor) to craft a message and a plan that can pass muster at LPC.<br></p><p>One might ask at this point why they would want to pay yet another person considering how expensive a townhouse renovation already is.<br></p><p>The answer is that the cost is often more than made up by the time saved from not having to go back before the LPC any more than necessary. When a project is rejected by the LPC a property owner may have to wait months to make the necessary changes and then wait to be seen again.<br></p><p>Saving even a month of time means thousands in saved property taxes, debt service, and replacement costs like temporary housing. And often, a project that is ultimately rejected by LPC could have been saved by simple strategies that a qualified Landmarks consultant can provide. we would be happy to provide the names of several qualified individuals to help you achieve your renovation goals.<br></p><p>We at LJG have years of experience with clients and customers that have gone through the process of LPC approval. We should be your first call when you consider undertaking a townhouse renovation project, so you can spend less time waiting for your dream house and more time living in it.<span></span><br></p>