---
title: Hitting New Heights in Brooklyn
main_image: /assets/img/blog/BN-AC257_NYHODC_HV_20131022154225.jpg
author:
  - /agents/garfield/ravi-kantha
authors:
  - Ravi Kantha
categories:
  - Brooklyn
  - Townhouses
---
<p>For
 many years, Brooklyn Heights has been considered the most beautiful 
neighborhood in Brooklyn, and arguably in all of New York City. Widely 
known as America's first suburb, the neighborhood offers an array of 
brownstones and townhouses set on tree-lined streets. Moreover, they 
typically sit on larger lot sizes, typically 20' to 25' wide, and even 
reaching 30' to 40' wide. What many people don't know, however, is that 
Brooklyn Heights townhouse value has soared and now rivals prime 
neighborhoods in Manhattan such as Chelsea and Gramercy.</p><p>Indeed,
 Brooklyn Heights townhouse value is up 117% over the last 5 years. 
Renovated single family townhouses have approached, and in some cases, 
surpassed the $2,000 per square foot mark. Recently, 165 Columbia 
Heights sold for $9,950,000 ($1,962 per square foot). This highly 
desirable carriage house took only 24 days to go into contract and it 
closed in less than 2 months. But the neighborhood's high water mark so 
far this year is 81 State Street, which sold for $10,250,000 ($2,338 per
 square foot) in July. Sold off market, this home is in mint condition, 
having undergone a complete renovation and conversion to single family 
after being purchased in 2008 for $2,900,000.<br></p><p>Thus
 far in 2015, the Brooklyn Heights townhouse and small building market 
has hit an average of $1,192 per square foot. Compare that to Gramercy 
Park, where the year's average currently stands at $1,046 per square 
foot, and Chelsea, where the average this year is at $1,360. While it is
 no secret that Brooklyn real estate has arrived, these numbers show 
that the market recognizes what the residents of Brooklyn Heights have 
long known - its beauty, convenience, and amenities are on par with or 
better than those of Manhattan's most desirable neighborhoods. Boasting 
endless rows of brownstones and townhouses, less than 10 minutes from 
Wall Street, with a gorgeous waterfront promenade and park, some of New 
York City's finest schools, and an array of boutique shops and 
restaurants, Brooklyn Heights offers a spacious alternative to 
Manhattan's townhouse market.<br></p><p><br></p>